The %docs app allows you to include documentation with the desks you distribute, making them available for easy browsing by users and developers.

The %docs app will automatically detect and publish any docs included with any installed desks. As long as they're in the correct place, of the correct filetype and include a doc.index file, they'll be picked up.

A doc.index file must be included in the root of the desk, specifying the files to be included, and their titles.

=> /~/scry/docs/dev/docs//index-file.html See the Index File section for details.

The files themselves will be in a /doc directory in the root of the desk. In /doc, there'll be two subdirectories - /usr and /dev. The former will contain docs for users, and the latter will contain docs for developers. The /dev directory may have one further level - directories named for agents on the desk, and containing docs specifically for those agents.

The directory hierarchy may therefore look something like this:

```
doc
├── dev
│   ├── overview.gmi
│   └── foo-store
│       ├── api-ref.gmi
│       └── data-types.gmi
└── usr
    ├── changelog.gmi
    └── overview.gmi
```

The filetype of the docs themselves is "gemtext" and must end in the .gmi file extension. Gemtext is a ultra-minimalist markup format developed for a software project called Gemini.

=> /~/scry/docs/dev/docs//file-format.html See the File Format section for details of the gemtext format.

Apart from the hierarchy described above, there are no particular restrictions on how you organise your docs, or what docs you include. There are, however, some general suggestions:

=> /~/scry/docs/dev/docs//structure.html See the Suggested Structure section for details.


## Dev desk

To include docs in your own desk, there are a few files you'll need (mark files, etc). These are included in the docs-dev dev desk in the github repo. Here's what it contains:

```
docs-dev
├── lib
│   └── gemtext.hoon
├── mar
│   ├── gmi-diff.hoon
│   ├── gmi.hoon
│   └── index.hoon
└── sur
    ├── docs.hoon
    └── gemtext.hoon
```

These files are all symlinked, so you'll need to clone the whole repo, then copy them across with something like:

```
cp -rL git/docs-app/docs-dev/* /path/to/your/development/desk
```

=> https://github.com/tinnus-napbus/docs-app The Docs app repo can be found here.
